Cvs 89108 metrics documentation (#1403)
openvinotoolkit/model_server: docs/metrics.md

    ],
    "monitoring":
        {
            "metrics":
            {
                "enable" : true,
                "metrics_list": ["ovms_requests_success", "ovms_infer_req_queue_size"]
            }
        }
    }
    ```

CONFIG JSON WITH ALL METRICS ENABLED

```bash
   {
    "model_config_list": [
        {
           "config": {
                "name": "resnet",
                "base_path": "/workspace/resnet-50-tf"
           }
        }
    ],
    "monitoring":
        {
            "metrics":
            {
                "enable" : true,
                "metrics_list": 
                    [ "ovms_requests_success",
                    "ovms_requests_fail",
                    "ovms_inference_time_us",
                    "ovms_wait_for_infer_req_time_us",
                    "ovms_request_time_us",
                    "ovms_current_requests",
                    "ovms_infer_req_active",
                    "ovms_streams",
                    "ovms_infer_req_queue_size"]
            }
        }
    }
    ```

## Example response from metrics endpoint

To use data from metrics endpoint you can use the curl command:
```bash
    curl http://localhost:8000/metrics
```

> [Example metrcis output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openvinotoolkit/model_server/v2022.2/docs/metrics_output.out)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Example metrics output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openvinotoolkit/model_server/v2022.2/docs/metrics_output.out)
```

# Metrics {#ovms_docs_metrics}

## Introduction

This document describes how to use metrics endpoint in the OpenVINO Model Server. They can be applied for:

- Providing performance and utilization statistics for monitoring and benchmarking purposes

- Auto scaling of the model server instances in Kubernetes and OpenShift based on application related metrics

> **NOTE**: Currently, metrics feature is released as a preview feature.

Built-in metrics allow tracking the performance without any extra logic on the client side or using network traffic monitoring tools like load balancers or reverse-proxies.

> It also exposes metrics which are not related to the netowrk traffic. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also exposes metrics which are not related to the network traffic. 
```

> For example, statistics of the inference execution queue, model runtime parameters etc. They can also track the usage based on model version, API type or requested endpoint methods.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I feel like we should have a diagram explaining these phases to the user. 
"number of active inference requests" or "execution queue size" might be unclear for the users that are not familiar with OVMS implementation

> OpenVINO Model Server metrics are compatible with Prometheus standard [Prometheus metrics detailed description](https://prometheus.io/docs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenVINO Model Server metrics are compatible with [Prometheus standard](https://prometheus.io/docs)
```

Default metrics
| Type      | Name | Labels | Description |
| :---    |    :----   |    :----   |    :----       |
| gauge      | ovms_streams | name,version | Number of OpenVINO execution streams |
| gauge      | ovms_current_requests | api,interface,method,name,version | Number of inference requests currently in process |
| counter      | ovms_requests_success | name,version | Number of successful requests to a model or a DAG. |
| counter      | ovms_requests_fail | name,version | Number of failed requests to a model or a DAG. |
| histogram      | ovms_request_time_us | interface,name,version | Processing time of requests to a model or a DAG. |
| histogram      | ovms_inference_time_us | name,version | Inference execution time in the OpenVINO backend. |
| histogram      | ovms_wait_for_infer_req_time_us | name,version | Request waiting time in the scheduling queue. |

Optional metrics
| Type      | Name | Labels | Description |
| :---    |    :----   |    :----   |    :----       |
| gauge      | ovms_infer_req_queue_size | name,version | Inference request queue size (nireq). |

> | gauge      | ovms_infer_req_active | ,name,version | Number of currently consumed inference request from the processing queue. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| gauge      | ovms_infer_req_active | name,version | Number of currently consumed inference request from the processing queue. |
```

Labels description
| Name      | Values |  Description |
| :---    |    :----   |    :----   |
| api      | KServe, TensorFlowServing  | Name of the serving API. |
| interface      | REST, gRPC | Name of the serving interface. |
| method      | ModelMetadata, ModelReady, ModelInfer, Predict, GetModelStatus, GetModelMetadata | Interface methods. |
| version      | 1, 2, ..., n | Model version. Note that GetModelStatus and ModelReady do not have the version label. |

> | name      | resnet, face_detection, ... | Model name. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| name      | As defined in model server config | Model name or DAG name. |
```

## Enable metrics

By default, the metrics feature is disabled.

Metrics endpoint is using the same port as the REST interface for running the model queries.

It is required to enable REST in the model server by setting the parameter --rest_port.

To enable default metrics set you need to specify the `metrics_enabled` flag or json setting:

CLI

   ```bash

>          docker run --rm -d -v ${PWD}/models/resnet-50-tf:/opt/model -p 9001:9001 -p 9002:9002 openvino/model_server:latest \

Reviewer: while there is added a command to mount a folder, there should be added a command to create the model repository or to use a public model from gc. Use the same method in all examples

Author: Ok.

               --model_path /opt/model --model_name resnet --port 9001 \

>                --rest_port 3002 \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
               --rest_port 9002 \
```

               --metrics_enabled
   ```

CONFIG CMD

   ```bash

>          docker run --rm -d -v -d -v ${PWD}/workspace:/workspace openvino/model_server --config_path /workspace/config.json -p 9001:9001 -p 9002:9002 openvino/model_server:latest \

Reviewer: use consistent port 9000 and 8000

Author: Ok.

                "metrics_list": ["ovms_requests_success", "ovms_infer_req_queue_size"]
            }
        }
    }
    ```

CONFIG JSON WITH ALL METRICS ENABLED

```bash
   {
    "model_config_list": [
        {
           "config": {
                "name": "resnet",
                "base_path": "/workspace/resnet-50-tf",
                "layout": "NHWC:NCHW",
                "shape": "(1,224,224,3)"
           }
        }
    ],
    "monitoring":
        {
            "metrics":
            {
                "enable" : true,
                "metrics_list": 
                    [ "ovms_requests_success",
                    "ovms_requests_fail",
                    "ovms_inference_time_us",
                    "ovms_wait_for_infer_req_time_us",
                    "ovms_request_time_us",
                    "ovms_current_requests",
                    "ovms_infer_req_active",
                    "ovms_streams",
                    "ovms_infer_req_queue_size"]
            }
        }
    }
    ```

## Example response from metrics endpoint

To use data from metrics endpoint you can use the curl command:
```bash
    curl http://localhost:8000/metrics
```

> [Example metrcis output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openvinotoolkit/model_server/CVS-89108_metrics_documentation/docs/metrics_output.log)

Reviewer: instead of this branch use tag v2022.2

Author: Ok.

## Metrics implementation for DAG pipelines

For [DAG pipeline](dag_scheduler.md) execution there are relevant 3 metrics listed below.

> They track the execution as a whole request processing all the pipeline nodes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They track the execution of the whole pipeline, gathering information from all pipeline nodes. 
```
